Docs update for new smart union behavior (#9700)
pydantic/pydantic: docs/concepts/unions.md

2. We're in lax mode and the numeric string `'123'` is valid as input to the first member of the union, `int`.
   Since that is tried first, we get the surprising result of `id` being an `int` instead of a `str`.

!!! tip

>     For complex cases, it's recommended to use either [`left_to_right`](#left-to-right-mode) mode or [discriminated unions](#discriminated-unions).

Reviewer: I wonder if it's worth putting a recommendation right in the top section to say something like "always prefer discriminated unions, where possible". And then we can elaborate further on the untagged options and their tradeoffs.

    With these approaches, you can control which member of the union to validate against, and in which order.
    If you're looking for incredibly specialized behavior, you can use a [custom validator](../concepts/validators.md#field-validators).

### Smart Mode

> Because of the surprising side effects of `union_mode='left_to_right'`, in Pydantic >=2 the default mode for `Union` validation is `union_mode='smart'`.

Reviewer: IMO it's not "side effects" (I know not from this PR but I've wanted this line changed for a while :) )

```suggestion
Because of the potentially surprising results of `union_mode='left_to_right'`, in Pydantic >=2 the default mode for `Union` validation is `union_mode='smart'`.
```

> In this mode, pydantic selects the best match for the input from the union members based on two main factors:

Reviewer: I suggest we rewrite this to say something like

```suggestion
In this mode, pydantic attempts to select the best match for the input from the union members. The exact algorithm may change between Pydantic minor releases to allow for improvements in both performance and accuracy.
```

Maybe then move the tip about complex cases / user control here too?

> 1. The number of valid fields set (relevant for models, dataclasses, and typed dicts)

Reviewer: I'd be then tempted to put the actual algorithm (i.e. everything from here down) behind a `<details>` collapsible tag so that interested parties can read it, while subtly emphasising further that the algorithm is a mostly opaque and internal concern which may change.

### Smart Mode

Because of the potentially surprising results of `union_mode='left_to_right'`, in Pydantic >=2 the default mode for `Union` validation is `union_mode='smart'`.

In this mode, pydantic attempts to select the best match for the input from the union members. The exact algorithm may change between Pydantic minor releases to allow for improvements in both performance and accuracy.

!!! tip

    In general, we recommend using [discriminated unions](#discriminated-unions). They are both more performant and more predictable than untagged unions, as they allow you to control which member of the union to validate against.

    For complex cases, if you're using untagged unions, it's recommended to use `union_mode='left_to_right'` if you need guarantees about the order of validation attempts against the union members.

>     If you're looking for incredibly specialized behavior, you can use a [custom validator](../concepts/validators.md#field-validators).

Reviewer: I think in general this wording looks great! I'd like it to be at the top of the page, maybe around line 14? Maybe it's a tip, or maybe it's just open copy in the opening paragraphs.

1. The number of valid fields set (relevant for models, dataclasses, and typed dicts)
2. The exactness of the match (relevant for all types)

#### Number of valid fields set

!!! note
    This metric was introduced in Pydantic v2.8.0. Prior to this version, only exactness was used to determine the best match.

This metric is currently only relevant for models, dataclasses, and typed dicts.

The greater the number of valid fields set, the better the match. The number of fields set on nested models is also taken into account.
These counts bubble up to the top-level union, where the union member with the highest count is considered the best match.

For data types where this metric is relevant, we prioritize this count over exactness. For all other types, we use solely exactness.

#### Exactness

For `exactness`, Pydantic scores a match of a union member into one of the following three groups (from highest score to lowest score):

- An exact type match, for example an `int` input to a `float | int` union validation is an exact type match for the `int` member
- Validation would have succeeded in [`strict` mode](../concepts/strict_mode.md)
- Validation would have succeeded in lax mode

> The union match which produced the highest exactness score will be considered the best match.

Reviewer: I still think all of lines 93-116 should be moved into the "Smart Mode Algorithm" box.

    See more details in [Required fields](../concepts/models.md#required-fields).

!!! note
    We reserve the right to tweak the internal `smart` matching algorithm in future versions of Pydantic. If you rely on very specific

>     matching behavior, it's recommended to use `union_mode='left_to_right'` or [discriminated unions](#discriminated-unions).

Reviewer: I think this note should be next to the "Smart Mode Algorithm" box. Either move the box down here, or the note up.
